the modern vampire stems from the
evolutionary line of the slavic vampire
where the transformation over the years
has been great the slavic vampire first
emerged in the balkans at the beginning
of the ninth century and over time
became a very significant figure in
slavic mythology the causes of vampirism
in the slavic tradition revolved around
problems associated with the person's
birth or death for example a baby born
with the tail or a membrane cap on his
or her head a person who had been
excommunicated for suicide were all
liable to become vampires murderers
thieves drunkards and witches were like
the candidates as well
as vampire lore spread throughout
Eastern Europe and Russia it was
modified by each country according to
its respective beliefs and traditions in
the Czech Republic in Slovakia the
vampire is believed to have two souls
and two hearts the presence of the
second soul is evident by the corpses
ruddy complexion open eyes two curls in
its hair and an absence of rigor mortis
this breed of vampire has the ability to
kill its victims with a mere evil line
in Poland the person with a red face and
hyperactive personality is thought to be
a future vampire these types must be
watched very closely the Russian vampire
or du pere has the ability to capture a
victim's gaze with its evil eye and lead
them to their grave
in the mid 15th century Vlad tepish also
known by the surname Dracula was the
principal Asia
the ancient kingdom now part of Romania
Vlad was the historical figure on which
Bram Stoker based his Count Dracula
though not considered a vampire in his
day there was some grounding for
Stoker's interpretation Vlad was known
as a most severe ruler who took great
pleasure in impaling his enemies on long
spikes and was even rumored to drink of
their blood the true vampire of Romania
was the Strigoi of which there are two
types a living vampire and an undead
version that is risen from the grave in
Romania being born out-of-wedlock time
before baptism or being the seventh
child of the same sex in a family can
all cause one to become a Strigoi the
Strigoi Mort where those vampires would
risen from the dead
the term vampire was first used in a
report concerning the incident that took
place in Hungary in 1725 a peasant by
the name of Peter plug Auschwitz died
and allegedly returned as a vampire and
killed some eight or nine people in his
village
the report claimed that Peter 10 weeks
following his death turned into a
vampire visited people on their
deathbeds
and strangled them hailing also from
Hungary it was another source of Bram
Stoker's inspiration countess Elizabeth
Bathory in the early part of the 17th
century countess Batory tortured and
murdered hundreds of young girls for
their blood she believed that by bathing
in virgin blood she could make her skin
look younger she even took to drinking
the blood of prettier victims thinking
would preserve her youth her first
victims were peasant girls when she
failed to see any results after bathing
in their blood she was certain she
needed the blood of a nobler class in
the end she reportedly killed over 600
girls both peasants and noble women in
1611 she was captured tried and
sentenced to spend the rest of her life
in a small windowless room in her castle
she died two years later